EJBCA FAQ
=========
$Id: FAQ,v 1.21 2004-05-09 08:33:24 anatom Exp $

---------
Q : After upgrading the version of Java, the Admin GUI no longer works.

A : Tomcat needs the CA-certificate relating to the server certificate in 
javas trust-store. This is imported when running 'install.sh/cmd' and when
you upgraded java, you have a new, empty truststore.
Import the CA-certificate in $JAVA_HOME/jre/lib/security/cacerts again, 
or copy the old truststore from the earlier JAVA_HOME.

---------
Q : When running 'install' or creating JKS or PKCS12 files you can't use longer 
password than 7 characters. Anything longer gives an error.

A : If you want to use strong crypto and/or password longer than 7 characters 
in keystores you must install the 'Unlimited Strength Jurisdiction Policy Files' for JDK.
The policy files can be found at the same place as the JDK 1.4 download. 
Further information on this can be found in the Sun documentation on the JCE.

---------
Q : When running then 'Install' command on windows I get the following error:
java.io.IOException: CreateProcess: ca.cmd init foo "cn=foo" 1024 23 null error=5

A : You don't have enough privileges on the file 'ca.cmd'. Change so you have all 
permissions by right-clicking the file in windows and choosing properties->security.
If you have Cygwin or similar installed execute permissions may be needed on 
.cmd files. Run the command 'chmod a+x *.cmd' in the ejbca directory. 
Also check the file setup-adminweb.cmd.

---------
Q : How do I connect to, and alter data in the built-in 'Hypersonic SQL'
database.

A : Shut down JBoss.
Alternative 1:
If you want to simply drop a table, go into the file
JBOSS_HOME\server\default\db\hypersonic\default.script and delete the lines that
creates the table, for instance to delete the table GLOBALCONFIGURATIONDATA,
delete the lines :
CREATE TABLE GLOBALCONFIGURATIONDATA(CONFIGURATIONID VARCHAR NOT NULL,DATA
VARBINARY,UNIQUE(CONFIGURATIONID))
CREATE UNIQUE INDEX PK_GLOBALCONFIGURATIONDATA ON
GLOBALCONFIGURATIONDATA(CONFIGURATIONID)

Just for fun you can also delete all lines beginning with:
INSERT GLOBALCONFIGURATIONDATA...

Alternative 2:
Download HsqlDb fom http://hsqldb.sourceforge.net/. Unpack and
in the 'bin'-subdirectory run 'runUtil DatabaseManager'. In the window that
opens connect to 'HSQL Engine Database In-Memory', select URL
'jdbc:hsqldb:<path-to-jboss>\server\default\db\hypersonic\default' where the
path-to-jboss is for example 'C:\jboss\jboss-3.0.6_tomcat-4.1.18'.
Now you can enter you SQL-commands, for example 'drop table
globalconfigurationdata' and press 'Execute'. Unforturnately you must now go
into the file JBOSS_HOME\server\default\db\hypersonic\default.properties and set
the version to the correct old one, edit the lines with 'version' to read 1.6
(for JBoss 3.0) instead of whatever is there.

---------
Q : When enrolling for certificates with IE, the enrollment controll (clsid) is
incorrect.

A : Microsoft changed the enrollment controll due to secrity issues. Look in
'src/publicweb/apply/apply_exp.jsp' for more information.

---------
Q : I get the error "Object Class Violation : (65)" when publishing certificates
in LDAP?

A : You LDAP object class may require some fields in the DN that you have not
entered. Some schemas require the DN-attribute SN for instance.

-----
Q : What applications servers do EJBCA run on?

A : Version 1.x of EJBCA has been known to run on JBoss, Weblogic and Orion.
Version 2.x of EJBCA has only been tested on JBoss, but should run on any EJB2
capable application server.

-----
Q : What databases do EJBCA support?

A : EJBCA supports in theory any database that works with the application
server. The database must have support for long fields, a CRL can in theory
become very large.
EJBCA has been known to work with MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, Sybase,
InstantDB, SAPDB and MSSQL 2000.
Other databases should work with simple configuration.

-----
Q : When using JDK 1.4.x i get a java.io.InvalidClassException?

A : Since JDK 1.4 introduced incompatibilities during class serialization the
PublicKey
class used as parameter to some versions of the 'createCertificate' method can
not be passed correctly.
You must use JDK 1.4 on both server and client, then it works.

Another problem that may occur is that JBoss have been upgraded since the
release of ejbca so the file 'lib/jboss-client.jar' must be replaced by one from
JBoss.

-----
Q : Why are there two versions of all commands, i.e. 'ra.sh' and 'ra.cmd'?

A : 'ra.sh' is for UNIX and 'ra.cmd' for Windows.

-----
Q : Why do I get the exception/error:

User foo has status '40', NEW, FAILED or INPROCESS required.; nested
exception is: javax.ejb.EJBException: null

A : When using the LocalAuthenticationSession (default) all users have a STATUS.
The status lifecycle beginns with NEW and ends with REVOKED. Only when the
 status is
NEW, FAILED or INPROCESS is it possible to issue a certificate to a user. After
 a certificate has been issued, the status is set to GENERATED. This works like
 a
 one-time-password scheme. To issue a new certificate to the user his/her status
 must be
 reset to NEW, FAILED or INPROCESS.
This can be done with:

ra.sh/cmd setuserstatus <username> <status>

Status '10' is NEW. Just enter 'ra.sh/cmd setuserstatus' to see a list of all
 status codes.

-----
Q : How do I manipulate EJBCA-keystores using Suns 'keytool'?

A : EJBCA use PKCS12 format for the keystore because it is a standard, and I
like standards.
Normally keytool (e.g. sun) can read PKCS12 file but not write, so the
BouncyCastle JCE is needed to handle PKCS12 keystores.

Put the BouncyCastle provider 'jce-jdk13-<version>.jar' in 'jre/lib/ext', the
 default classpath for extensions in java.

Now it should be possible to run:

keytool -list -alias privateKey -keystore server.p12 -storetype PKCS12
 -storepass foo123 -provider org.bouncycastle.jce.provider.BouncyCastleProvider

It should be possible to import etc as well using keytool.

-----
Q : How do I make a keystore using keytool with a real certificate from EJBCA?

A : First generate a new keystore and a keypair:

keytool -genkey -alias mykey -keystore myks.jks -keyalg RSA -dname
 c=SE,O=AnaTom,CN=Test -keypass foo123 -storepass foo123

You SUN keystore is now in the file 'myks.jks'.
Next generate a certification request (PKCS10):

keytool -certreq -alias mykey -sigalg SHA1WithRSA -file myreq.p10 -keypass
 foo123 -keystore myks.jks -storepass foo123

You now hav the certification request in the file 'myreq.p10'.

Open up EJBCA request page in your favorite browser,
 'http://127.0.0.1:8080/apply/index.html', and select the link for NOT
 having a browser, 'http://127.0.0.1:8080/apply/apply_man.jsp'

Download the Root CA certificate by clicking on the link. Save the certificate
 as 'ca.pem'.

Enter the username and password of a valid user with status NEW, see question
'Why do I get the exception/error:' above.
Copy and paste the contents of the certification request, 'myreq.p10' into the
 text field.
Save the returned certificate as 'cert.pem'.

Import the Root CA certificate into the keystore 'myks.jks':

keytool -import -alias cacert -file ca.pem -keystore myks.jks -storepass foo123

Import the certificate reply into the keystore:

keytool -import -alias mykey -file cert.pem -keystore myks.jks -storepass foo123
 -keypass foo123

Now you can take a look at your SUN keystore with:

keytool -list -keystore myks.jks

In theory, you can use the same method with a BouncyCastle PKCS12 keystore by
 adding the following
arguments to every command above:

-provider org.bouncycastle.jce.provider.BouncyCastleProvider -storetype PKCS12

unforturnately a bug in keytool prevents this from functioning properly at the
 moment, therefore I
recommend using the 'ca.sh/cmd' to create PKCS12 keystores. It can be used to
 create keystores generally,
not just for CAs.

-----
Q : What aliases do a EJBCA keystore contain?

A : The keystore EJBCA uses is a PKCS12 keystore. The CAs private key and
certificate is cotained in the alias 'privateKey', as configures in
'src/ca/ca/META-INF/ejb-jar.xml'.

If the CA is not a Root CA, i.e. the certificate in alias 'privateKey' is
signed by another certificate, that CA certificate (Root certificate) is
conatined in the alias with the same name as the CN part of the Root CAs DN,
i.e. the CN part of the issuer DN from the certificate in 'privateKey'.

-----
Q : Why does the first function in 'dist.html', fetching a users certificate
 return an error 404?

A : You have specified a subject DN to which no certificates have been issued.

-----
Q : Is EJBCA compatible with another JCE apart from BouncyCastle (for
example Cryptix)?

A : No, this is beacaues only BouncyCastle contains classes to actually generate
certificates and CRLs. Normal JCE only allows usage, not creation.

-----
Q : Where is logging performed and how do I control it?

A : Logging is done using Log4j. Anything below DEBUG level is considered
important information. Logging in JBoss is configured in 'log4j.properties' in
the JBoss config directory.

-----








